# Data Science Project 2020: Do ESG Scores Generate Differences in Risk-Adjusted Returns?

The purpose of this study is to analyze returns within four groups of companies within different ESG classes in the US between 2015 and 2019. We collected data from both Thomson Reuters and Fama and French databases. In the first part, We created a 3 factors Fama & French model incorporating different ESG ratings, modelized by dummy variables. Our empirical results showed that there was not a significant difference in risk-adjusted returns between firms with a A-rating compared to D-ratings, but companies with B-rating and C-rating present lower risk-adjusted returns compared to D-ratings in terms of ESG combined scores. In the second part, our goal is to focus on other risk-adjusted return measurements. To do so, we computed the Sharpe ratio and the Treynor ratio and performed a linear regression of these two indicators on our dummies for ESG classes and various control variables. Then, we analyzed the difference in the total risk (i.e. systematic risk plus idiosyncratic risk) within the different groups. The results showed that companies with higher ESG ratings had lower idiosyncratic risk, but there is no difference in systematic risk. Finally, we analysed if the difference of the ESG ratings had an impact on the risk-adjusted returns within different industries.

Our paper offers a broad analysis of the relation between ESG rating and the firm performance through various risk-adjusted indicators. Furthermore, we also explored the risk dimension alone, which is also an important investment criteria to take into account.
